README.md, before:

# *.zulipchat.com

Public realms found in zulipchat.com.

## langs

- Clojure https://clojurians.zulipchat.com
- Elixir https://elixir.zulipchat.com
- Lean https://leanprover.zulipchat.com (archive: https://leanprover-community.github.io/archive/)
- Oil https://oilshell.zulipchat.com
- Python https://python.zulipchat.com. No longer active as of Aug 2021. You should instead go to https://discuss.python.org/.  
  PyCon India: https://pyconindia.zulipchat.com
- Julia https://julialang.zulipchat.com (archive: https://juliacommunity.github.io/zulip-archive/)
- Rust https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com (archive: https://zulip-archive.rust-lang.org/)  
  Libraries:
  - Salsa https://salsa.zulipchat.com. A generic framework for on-demand, incrementalized computation. Inspired by adapton, glimmer, and rustc's query system.
- Coq https://coq.zulipchat.com
- Pony https://ponylang.zulipchat.com. Pony is an open-source, object-oriented, actor-model, capabilities-secure, high-performance programming language.
- Isabelle https://isabelle.zulipchat.com (archive: https://isabelle-prover.github.io/zulip-archive). Isabelle is an interactive theorem prover, a higher order logic (HOL) theorem prover.

## audio / video
- Mixxx https://mixxx.zulipchat.com. Mixxx is Free DJ software that gives you everything you need to perform live mixes. Please read the Mixxx Code of Conduct before participating.
- OpenShot https://openshot.zulipchat.com. We are the developers of OpenShot Video Editor, the free, open, and award-Winning video editor for Linux, Mac, and Windows! We use Zulip to communicate, monitor, and support OpenShot Video Editor and it's related projects (openshot-qt, libopenshot, libopenshot-audio).

## community
- oscafrica.org https://oscafrica.zulipchat.com
- The Girl Code https://tgc.zulipchat.com
- CodeRefinery https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com
- https://programmers.zulipchat.com. This is a Zulip forum for programmers.
- AnitaB.org https://anitab-org.zulipchat.com. AnitaB.org is a global nonprofit organization based in Belmont, California. Founded by computer scientists Anita Borg and Telle Whitney, the institute's primary aim is to recruit, retain, and advance women in technology.

## database / cache
- Infinispan https://infinispan.zulipchat.com. Infinispan is a distributed in-memory key/value data store with optional schema, available under the Apache License 2.0.
- MariaDB https://mariadb.zulipchat.com
- Pelikan Cache https://pelikan.zulipchat.com/. Pelikan is a cache framework written in C. It provides an expanding collection of cache services, and a common library used to build them.

## science and math
- Evoplex https://evoplex.zulipchat.com. Evoplex is a fast, robust and extensible platform for developing agent-based models and multi-agent systems on networks.
- scikit-image https://skimage.zulipchat.com. scikit-image is a collection of algorithms for image processing.
- Category theory https://categorytheory.zulipchat.com. A home for all who love categories.
- INSPIRE-HEP https://inspirehep.zulipchat.com. INSPIRE-HEP is an open access digital library for the field of high energy physics (HEP).
- Hail https://hail.zulipchat.com. Hail is an open-source, scalable framework for exploring and analyzing biological data, originally developed to process some of the largest genetic datasets ever created.
- Loop https://loop.zulipchat.com. Loop is an app template for building an automated insulin delivery system. It is not distributed as a pre-built app that can be installed; you must build it yourself. Support is only through the work of generous volunteers. Please be respectful of their time. https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop

## hardware
- EI2030 https://ei2030.zulipchat.com/. Open-Source E-ink laptop development working groups

## to be classified
- W3C Credible Web Community Group https://credweb.zulipchat.com
- Wikimedia Outreach https://wikimedia.zulipchat.com/login/. https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Outreach_programs.
- Xi Editor https://xi.zulipchat.com
- Hydra framework https://hydra-framework.zulipchat.com. See https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra.
- Wildfly https://wildfly.zulipchat.com/. WildFly is a flexible, lightweight, managed application runtime that helps you build amazing applications.
- Quarkus https://quarkusio.zulipchat.com/. Quarkus is a full-stack, Kubernetes-native, Java Framework tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM.
- VivumLab https://vivumlab.zulipchat.com/. An open-source data-center, owned by you, the user.
- Servo https://servo.zulipchat.com/. Servo is a prototype web browser engine written in the Rust language.
- D3.js https://d3js.zulipchat.com/. D3.js is a JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data.
- Backdrop CMS https://backdrop.zulipchat.com/. The free and open source CMS that helps you build websites for businesses and non-profits.

# Self-hosted public instances

- Zulip https://chat.zulip.org. Zulip development and user community
- FHIR https://chat.fhir.org. FHIR is a platform specification that defines a set of capabilities used across the healthcare process.
- SageMath https://zulip.sagemath.org

Commit message:

Add disclaimer about public realms number

README.md, after:

# *.zulipchat.com

Public realms found in zulipchat.com.
Disclaimer: this list is a *small subset* of the existing public realms of zulipchat.com. I found them from combing through github.com (for zulipchat.com keyword), HN posts, Reddit posts, etc.

## langs

- Clojure https://clojurians.zulipchat.com
- Elixir https://elixir.zulipchat.com
- Lean https://leanprover.zulipchat.com (archive: https://leanprover-community.github.io/archive/)
- Oil https://oilshell.zulipchat.com
- Python https://python.zulipchat.com. No longer active as of Aug 2021. You should instead go to https://discuss.python.org/.  
  PyCon India: https://pyconindia.zulipchat.com
- Julia https://julialang.zulipchat.com (archive: https://juliacommunity.github.io/zulip-archive/)
- Rust https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com (archive: https://zulip-archive.rust-lang.org/)  
  Libraries:
  - Salsa https://salsa.zulipchat.com. A generic framework for on-demand, incrementalized computation. Inspired by adapton, glimmer, and rustc's query system.
- Coq https://coq.zulipchat.com
- Pony https://ponylang.zulipchat.com. Pony is an open-source, object-oriented, actor-model, capabilities-secure, high-performance programming language.
- Isabelle https://isabelle.zulipchat.com (archive: https://isabelle-prover.github.io/zulip-archive). Isabelle is an interactive theorem prover, a higher order logic (HOL) theorem prover.

## audio / video
- Mixxx https://mixxx.zulipchat.com. Mixxx is Free DJ software that gives you everything you need to perform live mixes. Please read the Mixxx Code of Conduct before participating.
- OpenShot https://openshot.zulipchat.com. We are the developers of OpenShot Video Editor, the free, open, and award-Winning video editor for Linux, Mac, and Windows! We use Zulip to communicate, monitor, and support OpenShot Video Editor and it's related projects (openshot-qt, libopenshot, libopenshot-audio).

## community
- oscafrica.org https://oscafrica.zulipchat.com
- The Girl Code https://tgc.zulipchat.com
- CodeRefinery https://coderefinery.zulipchat.com
- https://programmers.zulipchat.com. This is a Zulip forum for programmers.
- AnitaB.org https://anitab-org.zulipchat.com. AnitaB.org is a global nonprofit organization based in Belmont, California. Founded by computer scientists Anita Borg and Telle Whitney, the institute's primary aim is to recruit, retain, and advance women in technology.

## database / cache
- Infinispan https://infinispan.zulipchat.com. Infinispan is a distributed in-memory key/value data store with optional schema, available under the Apache License 2.0.
- MariaDB https://mariadb.zulipchat.com
- Pelikan Cache https://pelikan.zulipchat.com/. Pelikan is a cache framework written in C. It provides an expanding collection of cache services, and a common library used to build them.

## science and math
- Evoplex https://evoplex.zulipchat.com. Evoplex is a fast, robust and extensible platform for developing agent-based models and multi-agent systems on networks.
- scikit-image https://skimage.zulipchat.com. scikit-image is a collection of algorithms for image processing.
- Category theory https://categorytheory.zulipchat.com. A home for all who love categories.
- INSPIRE-HEP https://inspirehep.zulipchat.com. INSPIRE-HEP is an open access digital library for the field of high energy physics (HEP).
- Hail https://hail.zulipchat.com. Hail is an open-source, scalable framework for exploring and analyzing biological data, originally developed to process some of the largest genetic datasets ever created.
- Loop https://loop.zulipchat.com. Loop is an app template for building an automated insulin delivery system. It is not distributed as a pre-built app that can be installed; you must build it yourself. Support is only through the work of generous volunteers. Please be respectful of their time. https://github.com/LoopKit/Loop

## hardware
- EI2030 https://ei2030.zulipchat.com/. Open-Source E-ink laptop development working groups

## to be classified
- W3C Credible Web Community Group https://credweb.zulipchat.com
- Wikimedia Outreach https://wikimedia.zulipchat.com/login/. https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Outreach_programs.
- Xi Editor https://xi.zulipchat.com
- Hydra framework https://hydra-framework.zulipchat.com. See https://github.com/facebookresearch/hydra.
- Wildfly https://wildfly.zulipchat.com/. WildFly is a flexible, lightweight, managed application runtime that helps you build amazing applications.
- Quarkus https://quarkusio.zulipchat.com/. Quarkus is a full-stack, Kubernetes-native, Java Framework tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM.
- VivumLab https://vivumlab.zulipchat.com/. An open-source data-center, owned by you, the user.
- Servo https://servo.zulipchat.com/. Servo is a prototype web browser engine written in the Rust language.
- D3.js https://d3js.zulipchat.com/. D3.js is a JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data.
- Backdrop CMS https://backdrop.zulipchat.com/. The free and open source CMS that helps you build websites for businesses and non-profits.

# Self-hosted public instances

- Zulip https://chat.zulip.org. Zulip development and user community
- FHIR https://chat.fhir.org. FHIR is a platform specification that defines a set of capabilities used across the healthcare process.
- SageMath https://zulip.sagemath.org
